Body, or B codes, cover the functions that are generally inside the passenger compartment of the vehicle. These functions provide you with driving assistance as well as comfort, convenience, and safety.

B codes are also broken down into generic and manufacturer-specific code lists and should be looked at carefully when diagnosing your vehicle. Again, B0000-B1000 and B3000-B4000 codes are generic, while codes between B1000-B3000 are manufacturer-specific and may not necessarily be found in generic databases.

For the first subset of B codes ranging from B0000 to B1000, you can expect to find issues related to front and side passenger airbag systems, as well as the seat belt tensioner systems and their sensors. A lot of these codes have to do with the systems that monitor when the airbags deploy and when the seat belts tense up in the event of accidents. Body sensors located all around the vehicle are critical components that ensure your airbags deploy when they need to. This is why the entirety of these complicated systems is included in the first set of B codes. You’ll also find that rear passenger airbag and seat belt systems – and even third-row passenger systems in larger SUVs – are included in this subset of trouble codes.

The second set of B codes – B1000-B3000 – are manufacturer-specific and deal with vehicle systems ranging from power door locks to ignition systems and even brake lamps and keyless entry functions for those vehicles with that feature. Within this subset, you’ll also find trouble codes associated with the power functions of the driver and passenger side seats, as well as climate control systems and other power systems like the windshield wipers and sprayers.

B codes in the B2000 range typically deal with electrical circuit issues and power supply problems to these same systems. These codes will tell the technician which exact circuit is having an issue and which sensor to address. For instance, when there’s an issue with the power window function as a result of the supply line to the battery, a B2214 code typically triggers. Issues with the memory functions of seats and mirrors are located in this subset as well. Auxiliary heaters and interior fans are also monitored by codes found in this subset of B codes.

Finally, B3000 and higher codes are manufacturer-specific and could identify issues with anything from airbag sensors to transmission temperatures. It all depends on the manufacturer in question so these codes are best left to technicians with more detailed manufacturer code lists.
