Chassis, or C codes, are a subset of OBD-II codes that cover the functions that are typically outside of the passenger compartment. These are mechanical functions like brakes, steering, and even suspension systems. Following the pattern of both B and U codes, chassis codes are generic when they range from C000-C1000 and C3000-C4000. DTCs that are between C1000-C3000 are manufacturer-specific and further research is needed to properly diagnose your car’s issue.

The first subset of C codes, ranging from C0000 to C1000, generally deal with brake systems and traction control systems. Since these systems work in conjunction with one another, the sensors and computer systems integrate and communicate to properly carry out their functions. This is why you’ll find issues like the vehicle speed sensor, the brake pedal position sensor, and pressure system located in this subset of C codes. Steering wheel position sensors are also located here since steering is a critical factor in how the traction control system reacts to keep you on the road. The ABS function is also monitored by these codes as well as driving torque delivery from the engine to the wheels.

The next subset of C codes from C1000-3000 are manufacturer-specific and also cover a lot of the same systems that are in control of your vehicle’s mechanical functions. You’ll find DTCs related not only to ABS sensors, wheel sensors, and park brakes but also vehicle accelerometer circuit issues and dynamic stability control systems.

For instance, a popular C code of C1201 refers to an ABS front inlet valve coil circuit being shorted to the ground in Ford and Mazda models, but relates to faults in the vehicle stability control in Toyota and Lexus models. Vehicles equipped with air suspension and the systems that monitor their functionality are also located in this subset of C codes. Codes in the last subset, from C3000 to C4000, are typically paired with another trouble code if the issue is severe enough to address. Sometimes they’re irrelevant and indicate no addressable issue with the vehicle.
