General DTCs start with a 0 in the first numeral place after the letter that indicates generic OBD-II codes, whereas a 1 indicates manufacturer-specific codes and cannot be found in generic code databases. Manufacturer-specific codes are defined by the car manufacturer in question for all of the models that they make. For networking codes, U0000 to U1000 and U3000 to U4000 are generic, whereas codes from U1000 to U3000 are manufacturer-specific.

Networking codes that lie in the first subset of U0000-U1000 are generally related to the electrical systems found in the vehicle. These could be issues with low or high circuit voltage in the Controller Area Network (CAN) or Vehicle Area Network (VAN). Since there are plenty of systems that communicate with these networks, this first subset of U codes typically involves systems like the antilock braking system (ABS), transmission control module (TCM), and even navigation control systems.

Anytime there’s a failure in communication, you can expect one of the U codes to trigger. Issues with network software and network data are also included in this first subset of U codes and include issues with systems like the braking system, gear shift, and steering effort control modules. For those manufacturer-specific U1000-2000 codes, you’ll typically find issues with primary vehicle systems like engine temperature controls, ignition systems, and even power window and door functions. Since it depends on the specific manufacturer in question, you’ll have to make sure to locate the right code. Your owner’s manual is often a good place to start if you’re unsure where to turn. Or you can visit KBB.com’s auto repair guide to get started with your vehicle diagnosis.

U codes ranging from U2000 to U3000 are also manufacturer-specific and often relate to audio and infotainment systems in the vehicle. Common issues are audio speakers, Bluetooth systems, or navigation systems, among others.

With U3000-U4000 codes, you’ll generally be dealing with control module and power distribution systems. These could be ground and circuit issues with the Power Control Module (PCM) as well as ignition input and switch systems that are faulty or not communicating properly. Since these are generic codes, you can expect that the trouble code listed is for the particular system listed as faulty in your vehicle.

In all, U codes are vast in that they deal with power and distribution as well as circuit issues and should be taken seriously if triggered.
